Job Control

The shell associates a job with each pipeline.
It keeps a table of currently executing jobs, which may be listed with the jobs command.
When Bash starts a job asynchronously, it prints a line that indicates the
job number and the process ID of the last process in the pipeline associated
with this job.
All of the processes in a single pipeline are members of the same job.

Implementing job control functionality involves managing 
• processes
• process groups
• signals
• possibly terminal's foreground and background process groups

How to implement job control:

You would use a combination of system calls and utilities provided by the OS,
along with appropriate data structures and bookkeeping in your C program.

1.	Jobs associated with each pipleline:
	when creating a pipeline of processes, you can assign them to a 
	job data structure or keep track of the job ID associated with each
	process group.

	fork():	To create child processes for each command in the pipeline.
	execve(): To replace the child process image with the desired command.
	waitpid(): To wait for the child processes to complete.
	pipe(): To create a pipeline for inter-process communication 
		between commands.

2.	Currently executing jobs:
	Maintain a list of active jobs in your program.
	Whenever a new job is started, it gets added to the list.
	When a job completes, it is removed from the list.
	You can periodically check this list to determine 
	which jobs are currently executing.

	waitpid(): To check the status of child processes and determine 
	if they're still executing.

3.	Currently executing job that may be listed with the jobs command:
	Similar to the previous task, you can maintain a list of active jobs.
	The "jobs" command typically lists background jobs, so you would need
	to filter out jobs that are running in the background.
	
	waitpid() to monitor the status of child processes.
	isatty() and ttyname() to track which processes are running in the
	background.

4.	When a job starts asynchronously, print job number and process ID:
	Before starting a job asynchronously (eg: using for(), exec()), you can
	print the job number and the process ID of the last process in the 
	pipeline associated with the job. You'll need to track this information as
	you create and manage jobs.
	
	Use fork() and execve() to start the job asynchronously.

5.	All processes in a single pipeline that are members of the same job:
	When setting up a pipeline of processes, you can assign them to the same job.
	Each process in the pipeline will share the same process group ID, which you
	can use to identify them as members of the same job. 

	fork() to create child processes for each command in the pipeline.
	pipe() to set up communication between processes in the pipeline.
