Valgrind how to?

1,	Insert debugging flag during compilation, provides more detailed report
	about memory leaks, errors, and other issues

	cc -g test.c

2,	then run valgrind
	valgrind --leak-check=full --show-error-list=yes ./a.out 
	or
	valgrind --leak-check=full --show-leak-kinds=all ./a.out

3, 	In Leak Summary
	1 block = 1 malloc contiguous block of memory

4,	char* = 8 bytes
	char** str = malloc(size of (char *) * 10);
	str is a block of 80 bytes.
	
	if something is written to str, it will say, write to 0 bytes of the block.

5,	if let's say you are accessing the index 10 of str, remember index 9 is \0,
	so you are accessing out side the range.
	it will say you are writing to 0 bytes after 80 bytes

6,	if you are accessing the index 11, it will say you are writing to 
	8 bytes after 80 bytes

7,	good practice. every time I malloc, I straight away write a line to free it.
	then move that line to where it is appropriate to free it.

8,	if there is error checking, resulting in freeing of malloc memory,
	then remember there will be 2 places to free()

9,	When you run Valgrind with valid commands in pipex, the execve() gets 
	executed. When execve() gets executed it kills the history. Therefore,
	Valgrind report does not provide detailed report, it only says there is
	memory leak.
	When execve() is called successfully, the entire process image changes, 
	including the memory allocated by Valgrind for its instrumentation.
	The new process will not be under Valgrind's monitoring and analysis,
	so it won't produce detailed Valgrind reports for that specific execution.

10,	In order to check if memory is freed properly, you may want to comment
	the execve() part, then see if the program logic goes into free().

11,	If execve() is executed, the malloced arrays used in execve() will not be free()
	because the programs control ends once it outputs to output file or stdout.

12,	When you run Valgrind with invalid commands in pipex, the execve() 
	is not executed, therefore it does not kill the Valgrind history.

